Hi. Well, the next few
sessions cover what
we used to call
peer-to-peer lending.
That name peer-to-peer lending
is kind of falling out of use.
What you'll hear more and more in
its place is marketplace lending.
That name change reflects
the industry's pivot
since it's early days,
I'm going to say early days,
I'm only talking about 2006.
But back then when
people talked about
peer-to-peer lending,
it was all about using
the internet to take
out the middleman.
To take out
the middle man, right?
So the idea was that
you have some people
who for reasons coming up
in their lives need to
borrow some money right now.
Others find themselves
a little extra cash and
so wouldn't it be nice
if the people with
little extra cash would loan
to the people who need it.
The goal of this
peer-to-peer platform
was just allow those people
to find each other,
find the terms on which they
could transact with each other,
and then process
it going forward.
Move the money in
one direction and then when
people can pay it back
then move the money back.
So that was sort of the idea.
Use the Internet to match
up people who are
just naturally at
this moment in their lives
lenders or naturally borrowers.
Okay. So that was
the original idea.
What's happened over the years
and we'll talk about this,
is that the platform has gone
from that sort of passive role
or you have just let
people find each other to
the a very active role
of essentially making
the real decision,
making the real
credit-granting decisions.
So you have a potential borrower
shows up with
financial information.
Now it's really the Internet
platform itself that makes
all the decision about
whether that person gets
money how much and on what terms,
and the providers of funds
really that's not
the retail public anymore,
now it's big
institutional investors.
So when people look at that
they don't really think
of it as peer-to-peer
lending it's
not really what's going on,
so they've come to call
it marketplace lending.
So that's really the term
that you'll see in the press.
Okay. So first, I want to just
cover the landscape
of consumer credit.
Just all the different kinds
of consumer credit
that are big parts
of the economy.
What are the kind
of pinpoints you
could call them in these
different types of
consumer credit
and how those open up
opportunities
for the FinTech lenders
for marketplace lending.
So let's cover
the landscape and then
we'll talk about peer
to peer lending.
So what the original idea
of it, how it worked,
what came up, and then how it
evolved to what we see now.
There's going to be two flavors
that we'll talk about.
One is really aimed at
helping people get out of
their credit card debt
to help them shift out
of credit card debt into new debt
that is going to be a
little less onerous,
and the other major piece of it
is going to be student loans.
Student loans we'll see
some numbers in a moment here.
Student loans have
grown to be the kind of
the big financial issue of
our days and you'll see how
FinTech has entered the student
loan market with products
that help people refinance
their way out of
the student loans and once
again to something maybe
with a slightly
lower interest rate,
though there's going to
be a caveat there that
we're going to want to focus on.
Okay. Finally, I want
to say just a few words
about another aspect of
marketplace lending which isn't
loan lending to consumers,
it's lending to small business
with what we call
merchant cash advances.